# 2019/03/24 - A Series Of Unlikely Explanations

> I roll. I roll. Left click. I roll. Right click. I roll. I
> roll. Left click. I roll. Left click. I roll. Right click. I roll. I
> roll. I roll.

## Database

After 8 years of research, I found what I think is the best database
abstraction I can come up with. It is relational. It has ACID
guarantees. It has great at composition. That is you can build higher
level abstraction, even implement some [n-dimensional
indices](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.73.4894)
and full-text transderivationnal search. On my nano benchmarks, it is,
speed-wise, efficient, two to five times **faster** than an equivalent
Java database. Space wise, it somewhat hungry, but similar to
equivalent databases. 20ms per query. At least 3 times the size of the
data. It is versioned in a direct acyclic graph. It is a distributed
version control system for bigger than memory structured data. It want
to ease maintenance, collaboration and distribution of knowledge. It
will help reproducible science and ease datascience pipelines
determinism. It is based on wiredtiger key-value store and could scale
to monopoly-scale with foundationdb.

## Programming Language

I have been bitten by Python for far too long. Performance green
washing, Earth global warming et al. have it. I moved to Chez Scheme.
It much faster than Python.  It faster than GNU Guile. It is missing
some pieces, that gives me the opportunity to learn new stuff that are
well documented like HTTP protocol.  It has good foreign function
interface.  It can even talk to Python with
[Darkart](https://github.com/guenchi/Darkart). It has a [beautiful
website](http://scheme-lang.com/).

Also, Chibi has a wasm backend that I plan to use in the browser. Have
a glimpse of it at [cons](http://scheme-lang.com/cons/).

## User Interface

I had my fair share of thinking in the topic of user interface.

I like conversational interfaces and would like to see more of those.

I think web browser softwares are not suitable for space exploration.

For the time being I will rely on firefox and chibi-on-wasm for my
user interface needs until I build binding of GTK or a better tool
present itself.

## Internet

I will work on an Internet that can work without the help of
monopolies that is based on peer-to-peer.

## Me, Myself and I

I am a citizen of the world. I want to move it in a good
direction. Peace sustainability, the ultimate utopia.

# Natural Language Processing

I will avoid this subject for the time being.

## Advice

Pick a culture ship at random.
